Okay, let me show you the best way to
get this spinner working for you on your
computer with your students. So, here's
how the spinner works. Basically, you
click it and it spins and then you'll
have to press one or zero for a correct
answer or an incorrect answer before you
can spin it again. So, what do the
instructions say? It says the safest way
is to first download the project from
this source or this source. And if
you're on the uh GitHub repo, the way
that you download the uh file is a click
code and then click download zip. You're
going to have to unzip that zip file. So
let's see. I've already done that right
here. So if I just open this, I can see
all the files inside. And then I'm going
to open the whole folder. That's
important. And open it up in Visual
Studio Code. That's my preferred
environment to make edits. So you can
see here that I can open sketchjs
and I can say oh I don't have period 1
and two I have period 3 and period 4 and
you can see this is a small list and
this is a really long list and those
instructions are right here. So you can
edit your list of students and if a
student is absent like this I can say oh
Leilani is not here today you can hide
them from um the spinner. So next it
says uh you got to find this line let
names because whatever names is holding
whatever data is in the variable names
that's what is going to show up on the
spinner. So, let's say I want to use my
period 3 here. Now, because I have the
live server extension, I have this
button down here that says go live. So,
if you have this installed, you can
click this button and say, "Hey, I want
to see my spinner. Start a local server
on my computer." And you can see right
here, it's looking at my period 3 list
and I pick spinner and choose a name. So
then there's really nothing else that
you have to do. If you don't want to use
Visual Studio Code and Live Server,
these are some other options, Python and
Node, if you're familiar with those. I
think Live Server is the easiest. But
basically, save your changes and that's
how it works. It's safe because it's not
on the internet. You're not publishing
your students names. And um you can keep
it wherever you want on your computer
where it's easy to find. I hope you
enjoy it. Let me know what you think.

From this video: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TTn8ZC9z4yg

Random Student (Spinner Wheel) Â© 2025 by Dom Brassey (@domlet) is licensed under CC BY-NC 4.0 